and so-and-so, and I can... Okay, I can get going.
Okay, what did you say about your father was one of the 12 what?
The 12 years of us.
Uh-huh.
And then my only point, saying that was because Eugene was beautiful, my cousin was Eugene, but he was beautiful, he was a little blonde boy, and then Helen looked exactly like...
The point is I can see my mother's face getting very pink when the lady was in the kind of intelligence.
And who was this dear little kid?
Oh, gee.
I didn't look like the rest of them.
And she used to say, you have to do such a wonderful job.
Such a wonderful job.
But now I know she meant she didn't buy.
She meant that when people said things like that, I didn't get upset.
But let me tell you.
Oh, you have got your thing grizzling.
The thing that interests me very much, and I'm going to write a little something about that, somebody made a little mistake and said that my mother, in The Living is Easy, I think that mother said something about her child in Brown, so and so on.
But this girl is very talented, she should have known better.
My point is, and therefore, I was going to write a little something about the Mexican mother, and of Jackson's child.
they don't understand is, it is the child that is prejudiced.
I used to say to my mother, I don't like Mary's mother, my mother's not very mad.
What did she say to you?
I said, nothing.
Well, what did she do to you?
Nothing.
Well, why don't you like her?
I don't like her face.
It doesn't look like your face.
My point is, if I see two mothers, one is pretty, one is plain, and the child can be plain too, but I always think that the mother
is that that's a beautiful woman, it's a mother.
But what I'm saying is, because there's been a little talk about the fun, the living is easy.
I mean, you know how people pick up something and know that, therefore, there's something about that.
That is my mother.
I was disappointed at that.
If I missed the quote, I must keep being funny.
My mother used to say, I wouldn't marry a yower man if he was made in a court.
A yower?
Don't worry about this.
Why don't you sit down, Ms.
Weston, and we can get comfortable.
All right, now, wait a minute, because I was sitting in this chair, because I'll sit there.
Okay.
I want you to, well, you don't have to see me, because you're not going to get pictures of me.
I am going to take pictures of you, but not right away.
All right.
Now, Brittany, but seriously, because I was the most obedient child in the world.
You can't be obedient because my grandmother made you instantly obedient.
All right, I will do whatever you tell me.
Well, you know, guys, because you know what you're doing, and I don't.
You can think about it what I'm saying.
Well, I think you should just sit down and make yourself... Wait, can I sit down here?
No, no, right there, where you're comfortable, I think, is probably what we'd like to do.
All right.
And then we're just going to talk, and I don't even want you to think that that thing is there.
It's just there.
That's my problem.
I don't think about it.
And then the man goes, like, oh, my God.
Oh, my God, there's nothing to do with it.
Don't worry about this.
We have about 20 newspapers that we're working for that are very interested in this particular story.
We even brought two copies of your book to inscribe for us before we go.
And I'm looking for a first edition of your first book, and I'll find it.
And when we come down sometime this summer, maybe we can come by and say hello.
But please, of course.
My wife's father lives here in Oak Bluffs, just a little bit from here.
He's a valentess.
Valentess.
Valentess, all right, all right.
He's a new cover.
I'm going to hold my notebook, and Claudia's going to hold the books.
All right.
I'll let you get some clips for that.
Okay.
I heard you answering some of the things that I had in mind, but
How much of this book would you say is autobiographical?
Are there autobiographical elements in this novel?
Well, I don't know.
What I mean by that is, there would never have been that book if there had not been a little book.
You've read the book.
If there had not been this little boy, who, there was a situation, the woman, you know, very much like the situation, and it was a Sunday, all of the castellas were closed,
And we wanted to get this woman off the island, you know, the fight woman off the island, so and so on.
And therefore, oh, my poor child, no, of course, because I was trying to make situations be funny, but then he called, and then this happened, and so on.
Oh, but anyway, my point is, oh, you know, Luke.
All right.
There was, everybody was so interested in Luke.
And one day I said to a friend of mine, tell me about him, oh, daddy, she said, not you.
I said, not me what?
She said, because are you crazy about him, too?
I think I only see him as a character.
But anyway, my point is that we were trying to get this girl, a white girl, off the island.
She went back to me, and she and I liked each other, because she was sophisticated, and I was sophisticated, and a friend of mine, the same man that I told you about, he was the one that had introduced her to Luke.
When I say Luke, the man's name was Luke.
I'm talking about the character now.
Yeah, but I'm talking about the real person.
We were trying to get the real person off the island.
The man.
No, no, no, don't forget.
You've read the book.
All right.
Don't forget, what's his name?
The white woman.
He came down.
Remember, Lute wanted to marry this girl.
That's right.
She knows the book very well, doesn't she?
I'm very happy about that because I said, do you know the history of the book?
Oh, the only thing, the point is, that's all over now, my point is, I used to say, it happened yet, my point is, Mary Roberts Reinhopper, the writer, he knew her name, well, oh, all right, she used to give, I call her a grant, I don't know, a thousand dollars, and she gave out, she gave three.
Two young men, I think they were white young men, got, that had the grant, and I got one, well, yeah,
But you probably weren't even born when there were a group of black people, black men.
Did you know those?
Oh, you didn't know both of those men either.
What did they call themselves?
Everybody who was a doctor or a lawyer or a black, any doctor with a whole handkerchief head or something.
They had negative things to say about them.
And the person all of a sudden asked,
This book has had a history, and all of a sudden I said to myself, if I bring this book out now, finish this book now, they will cover it, and the white reviewers will not know how to review it.
So I had to put the book aside, you see.
And then, of course, the situation got better.
And then I started the novel.
Then there were other things.
I can't go into all the things about that novel.
But finally, as you know, as you know, not only it got finished, you see, and it was well, it had been, I think, well received.
And I'm very happy about that.
Because there were times when I really disappeared.
Will this heaven novel get through?
Oh, you see, that's right on top of me.
And then the house went up over there.
All three of those, some coincidence, all three of those houses were being built.
And bang, bang, bang.
Now, I said, you don't need much sleep.
And I said, well, they will go at 5 o'clock.
But I'm older.
And all of a sudden, I realized I was tired.
I used to, with me as a lot of family, so they only needed about four hours sleep.
And therefore, when everybody was asleep,
Then I wrote until dawn, or something like that, but then I didn't realize, because I come in several times.
Now, when are we talking about this?
Well, my point of talking about this, this poor novel that I finished.
This novel here?
This novel here, yes.
But I went through so much to finish that novel, because I couldn't work on it in the daytime, because three houses were big.
You know that big thing that they have, the crane?
This is a similar.
Did you just finish this last summer, this book?
No, I finished it about, Daryl.
It was longer ago then, Daryl.
Well, no, it did, but it was Daryl years ago.
You didn't know that.
I didn't know that.
I hadn't thought about that.
That's why I talked to you about the grant, or whatever you called it.
I got one, too, and that was just my pitiful little story.
I imagine that they'd gone on to
fame and glory, but I was afraid to, and I think I was right, because they were very negative men.
When I say they were afraid of it, the reviewers, I think, was, well, that was my point.
I knew I was afraid that they would be afraid to review it, and those black men would review it.
I don't know what was wrong with it.
Are you talking about what time now, the 70s or so?
No, wait a minute.
Let me see.
I started, I think it was the 40s.
Because your first book was published in 1948.
Oh, wait a minute.
All right.
Then in that case... Well, then in that case... And so, it's so interesting.
People always ask you, why didn't you write another book?
I didn't start another book, but Doubleday didn't want it.
I mean, there happened to so many writers.
But you never wrote another book!
But they weren't sure another book.
Well, no, ask me the questions that you asked.
Okay.
I'll ask you another question.
I guess I want to know when you knew that you were going to be a writer.
Oh, well, you don't know this.
I know a little bit about it, yeah.
About the short stories.
I know that you said you won a prize.
Well, I was going to tell him that.
You won a prize when you were 18 years old, but I read someplace.
Well, that was before I met.
You actually knew that at the age of seven that you wanted to be a writer, I guess.
Yeah, well, my point is you will, definitely, naturally, he's doing the book.
I mean, at the wedding.
But then they, I don't know when they're coming up.
They're coming up with my short stories.
There was an introduction to the short stories.
It really is a lovely introduction.
Well, wait a minute.
I'm really upset in introduction.
I was the one who wrote about the stories.
I began writing them when I was about four or five years ago.
This is another nice piece.
And then, of course, they're bringing up the stories.
Understandably, often, there are a lot of people who want me to do the short stories.
But the Doubleday, understandably, I dare say, think that the book
will sell the short stories.
Do you follow what I'm doing?
Yes, I agree with that.
Oh, oh, and that's why, you see, because the scholars sort of want the short stories, and I must confess, I love my short stories, and why do you think it's because they're short?
Well, my daughter, from one of the years old, is she was a photographer at a school time school, and you'd see that you'd do a new question.
Yes.
And she said, I made her short stories in one of the great books in the school.
Oh, right.
That makes me very happy.
You would be surprised at how many, um,
This is our 12-year-old daughter who said this.
Ah, no.
And she reads your stories.
Oh, right, because I don't have to say that because I love my short stories.
I don't know what, because it doesn't take as long to write a short story.
Well, what's amazing is you cover five generations in this one book.
I don't know how you can do so much in 240 pages as you've done in this book.
Well, in the beginning, when I got the book, that book,
Because they must have lifted out a lot.
But I don't think so.
Well, the reason I don't think so, I'm ashamed to tell you, I can't read anything about it.
Because you worked so hard and hit it?
Yes.
A young girl would help me, and I would just type-form and so-and-so, and I would do one.
I used to do, I'm not being funny, I used to do seven drops.
Seven drops.
Do you write long-hand?
Do you type-hand?
Oh, I can't use a typewriter.
No.
I can't have to do with it.
How do you write your stories for the Vineyard Gazette?
Well, they're different.
But I don't write stories for them.
But you write a column.
Well, that's when I was at work there.
I don't work there anymore.
When I was at work there, of course, I used the text writer.
But that's a different situation.
But my point is, I don't know.
When I use the text writer, it doesn't seem real to me when I'm writing about them.
People don't seem real.
Do you understand?
It doesn't seem real.
Well, don't forget that a year ago was when I started writing.
And you have a pen, a pencil, and pen and pencil.
And I think that's it, you see, because... Now, I can type when I was working at the kids, and I did type.
When I was writing about people, or the real people, all right.
And because of the strangest feeling I've ever had, I'll never forget.
I wish I could remember what chapter I was writing about.
This never happened to me before, and I think it will never happen again.
All of a sudden, I was in the book.
I think after you've read the book, it may have been when the little girl got lost.
I don't know...
Because I've never been scared of my life.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah, and I remember that, you know, be calm, be calm, be calm.
And I put on my coat and hat and so forth, and I went to walk.
And I kept praying that nobody would say anything to me.
I was in that world.
I was in another world.
And then by the time I got down to it, nobody spoke to me.
I mean, because of the sort of death.
And then I snapped out of it.
But I've never had such a frightening experience.
It had never happened before.
I've written many things and never had that feeling.
But I was an Italian.
And I always wished that I could remember.
But I think it had something to do with the little girl.
I can't remember.
Oh, is that so?
Well, there was a little girl who got lost.
Was there on the island?
Yeah.
She went wandering, whatever.
Well, I always, you know, I always say to you, if there weren't any real people, I don't know how I would write.
But you see, because I am a writer, I have a writer's memory.
Because if I had asked them, do you remember?
I don't remember.
I mean, that happens so often.
I said, do you remember that day, so forth and so on, and they don't remember.
But I saw things.
As a writer, I do think that I'm a writer.
I saw things.
Because I remember me.
We were all good at it.
That little girl was blonde.
But this little girl was actually very fair.
Well, I think that's what the thing happened.
Her mother was brown-skinned.
And the mother said to them, because she was brown-skinned, the mother said to them that she was very light.
But the child was very fair.
She looked very bright.
And I think that they said that the child, I think that's what happened.
By the time they got to this person and that person, it was a colored child.
So that little girl was like this.
She was a, yeah.
How many years did you spend writing this book, would you say?
Well, not exactly years.
I wrote, oh, I think that, when I sent that off, you know, I think, I think you did 500, no, not 500, 50 pages.
That's like a proposal, so to speak.
You mean you said 50 pages of this book off?
Yeah, because, yes, but maybe you don't know that, because a darling woman, I knew, she wanted to
quite right, she wanted to, she was writing a novel, and I said, don't send, you can see, maybe we'll figure that out in a minute, I said, don't send them, only send them 50 pages.
But you see, if you send them the whole book, they think, do you understand what I'm saying?
Yes, I do.
All right, and so, all right, all right, so that, therefore, I think in the conventional.
But I mean, in terms of how long did it take you to write it, though, actually writing the book?
The first fifty pages.
No, the whole book.
The whole book.
Oh, well, you think.
You should write it, I guess.
Well, you think it was done in part, the first fifty pages.
And then I wrote, let me see, when did I do that to Mrs. Onathus?
And that's a question I have for you as well.
Your collaboration with Mrs. Onathus, you mentioned her in the book.
Was she your editor on this book for a while?
Yeah, well, that's a, that's a compliment.
Yes.
Oh, yes.
She was the one who, who, oh, God.
Everything is so complicated.
Let's just talk about Mrs. O' Master's thing.
Let's just talk about.
Oh, right.
She was, she had a house on the island, as you know that.
And so my point is, I knew of Mrs. O' Master's, but the last thing I would have done would be to ask her, to tell her, ask her, all right.
So a person that I knew, oh, really God, is so hot.
What happened, I guess, is what you—and the tape is not on—but what happened is that Mrs. Onas, and somebody went to Mrs. Onas.
And told her about the book.
About the book.
And she must have—she got in touch with you.
Yeah.
Well, yes, because I didn't know anything about it.
That's a great story.
That's a nice story.
Well, it's interesting.
The reason I'm saying that it's interesting about the devil bag, many things happen, and I mean, my point being, I'm the one who has to keep my mouth shut.
Do you follow what I'm saying?
Do you want to be willing to tell that on me?
Well, I'm sure that I always think that... Yes.
I'm sure that I'm not the only writer that I have gone through.
I always say, a lowly writer.
Because anybody can take a pen and a pen.
Well, how many people do you know if I have the time?
Did you come and visit?
Oh yes, that's cute.
Because you read the book.
And you read about the Oval.
You know the Oval.
Now where is the Oval?
There is no Oval.
That's my point.
It's my point.
We were wondering, where is the Oval?
All right.
One day I have to ask you to use the title of that.
So I went outside and I looked around, and then I said, oh, that's an oval.
But I didn't mean to use my own, but I said to myself, that's an oval.
I don't know, I'll use that word, you see.
And therefore, Mrs. Onassis came, the first day she came to me, she asked people all around.
She knew how to get around in the area, but she asked people where the oval was, and nobody knew where the oval was.
Nobody knew.
And then maybe he probably said something about where the Darcy West lived, and then somebody said that back then.
She came to visit you here?
Well, no, well, you can call it a visit, but we worked together.
You see, I would do a chapter for her, send it to her, and then she would come back the following week, Monday.
She would come on Monday.
She would come here to your house?
She would come here, too.
Yeah, that's why she would come to my house.
You might tell me about it, but I did a beautiful piece up out there, and I brought up the Gazette.
I did that piece, but the Gazette was quite a long piece.
Did you read the little thing that I brought up?
No, but you did read a little thing.
Isn't that in that book something about Mr. O'Neill?
Yes, there is.
In the beginning, you'd thank her for working.
All right, but it was a long piece that— I'll find out probably.
Yeah, because—oh, the Gazette will give it to you.
Yeah, because it was a beautiful thing that I did.
Because we were, I think you, they powered something, but the mismatch pair, you see.
Who should I talk to over there?
Any person in particular that you deal with?
Dick Weston.
Dick Weston, I'll call him.
Do you know who Weston is?
Yes, I do.
Oh, you know his father?
I know his father.
Oh, because they said of his father that no president did anything until he read them.
His father's father.
That happens to be true, probably, yeah.
Very likely, very likely, yeah.
So let's talk a little bit about your childhood.
I read someplace how you said to your mother, I want to go into my room and close the door because, and then she said, but tell me, could you tell me that little story?
Yeah, because I think it's going to be with the show stories.
I think they've got in there with the show stories.
I mean, your own experience about how you decided to go into it.
I'm sure.
My point in saying that is, very often when I go to a lecture or something, I'm sure I've lost faith in some of those.
And I always tell that little story about my mother.
My point is, my family used to laugh at me, and they would say, that's no child, that's a little sawed-off woman.
And so I found that useful, the same thing, because when I come home, I look so small, and then I tell, yeah, well, I think I was about five years old.
Well, you've read it, haven't you, that I wrote.
Because that's true.
I asked my mother if I could be with it.
Nowadays, children have got accepted to see.
But they just say, please, and it just amazes me.
And then somebody will come.
You're talking.
You have a child.
And the child goes upstairs.
I mean, oh, that's the way my mother goes.
He had to take a step back.
No child opens his mouth.
All you do, you just sit quietly.
If the lady offers you something, say no thank you.
And the reason I say that, in those days, people didn't have enough.
And one day, there was a woman there, a white, a colored woman who looked like white, and we children would pass her out of our way to school, and she would offer us something, and we would say, no, thank you.
And one day, she came to visit my mother, and she said to her, what are your children like?
Because I asked them, and then my mother explained, and you see, my point is, in those days,
If you took something, because I know I went to visit a family once years ago when I was a young girl, about 18 years old, and everybody got up one at a time and went into the kitchen to eat, because there wasn't enough to offer anybody.
That's why I get that problem with the young common people in particular, because they don't know what it was like
many, many, many, many years ago, you see.
But you told your mother at the age of 11 that you wanted to be a writer, I guess.
You wanted to lock the door to your room so you could write.
I don't think I was 11.
I was 19 years old.
And that was true.
I have to say this about my mother.
She was a good mother in that respect, you see.
I mean, she didn't, she let me do it.
She let me, she let me do it.
I think that it had a lot to do with her.
Did she ask you what things you wanted to write about, or did you know what you wanted to write about?
But, you know, this is kind of interesting.
I've thought about this fairly recently.
I'm the brown one.
And Eugenia and Helen were... You'd be surprised how easy it is for colored people to buy.
But why?
No.
You're an only child.
I'm an only child.
And that was one of the reasons, I think, that I wasn't an only child, because my mother wanted to bring her
I mean, she couldn't, you know what I mean.
Well, my point is, if she'd had another child, my father, and I'm just sort of thinking that this is what happened, if my father would have said, well, Dorothy has got a sister or brother's place.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
Yes.
Because that is the way it was done in those days.
Now you don't give a dime about anybody.
But in those days, you do, you see.
Because my mother was going to be a singer.
Did I tell you?
Well, no.
Your mother was one of 19 children, I read.
My grandmother told her.
And the point is, she was always ashamed about this.
She never even told me.
I just overheard them say it.
But the point is, you're not a sexy family.
And I think that's true.
I think the point is, if you have 19 children, you can't have much sex.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
Yeah, I thought about that, because they were single births.
And I think that, and I think that, because they were ashamed that they had this.
But I had to come back to my poor grandma and only went to bed with my grandfather, and that was something funny about 19 times, because she always had a crib baby, a left baby, and a toddler.
You see, and so that happens often.
I mean, I can understand my mother's embarrassment, and the sisters used to argue.
But Mama only had 18, Mama only had 18 children, and somebody said, Mama had 19, what's the difference between 18 years and 19 years?
Yeah.
What were some of the first things that you wrote, I guess, as a child?
Actually, the first thing I wrote,
Because, about a Chinese girl, because, or a Japanese guy, I thought you were supposed to write about things you didn't know about, do you know what I mean?
And I never will forget that, because, you know, and then, and then, not then, but when I got to be a little older, I wrote a story about myself and my two cousins, I didn't recall them around, and I wrote about the mother, my mother, about 40 years old, and I sent it, that was always, I don't know, I sent it to some publisher,
And I never forgot about 18 or 19, and I couldn't understand what he meant.
Well, he said that if I wanted to write about the mother, well, I don't remember what it was, that he would be glad to see the steward.
I couldn't understand why he wanted to write about somebody 40 years old.
Because the woman 40 years old knows more than an 18-year-old.
And I guess my mother was a colorful person.
I didn't realize that, but she was a colorful person.
Well, yes.
Essentially, they're questions that you never ask, even if they're all nothing you don't ask.
My point is, she was taken, she hated Sopranos.
And I said, she was a mental soprano.
And so she was just, oh, Jen, they're speaking up.
But the thing was, and this is a little sentimental, the thing was, I told you she had all these brothers and sisters.
And what he was doing was, she was going to be a singer, and as I told you, I never asked him if she was going to pass or whatever.
But anyway, my point is that my grandmother died, leaving no any, well, from two, wait a minute, leaving, the youngest was about two years old, and then the next, and then they were up to 14, and then they were 15, 17, so and so on.
So that, therefore, my father had asked, well, I'm saying this because, as I always say, I wrote The Living Is Easy.
I made much of it up.
Do you understand?
And the children chose to think that that was my mother, and that was my, you understand what I'm saying here?
And so it's like, it's altogether different.
And so my mother asked my father if he was great, but he'd been asking him for a thousand times.
And he told me that she wanted to be a singer because it helped her mother with the children.
And on this day, she heard that her mother died.
And she went to my father and asked him to lend her $30.
And he gave her $300.
Oh, I get a little choked.
And then, well, my grandmother looked like my father, and my grandfather looked like so-and-so.
And a lot of people, as you know, that's not the people who they think they are.
And so my father knew.
that my mother, and all of these children, that my mother could buy nice clothes for them, you know, maybe buy some plates and so forth and so on.
And so many people said, my mother married my father's money.
No, she married him because she could not repay this good man, and he'd been up here.
She wasn't having a thing, you see.
And I think that's why, what was that so funny?
I think that's why I'm an only child.
because he would understandably... Now, you were brought up in Boston, Mary, and your father did... I understand that your father was actually brought into slavery.
Oh, yeah, he was... And that he became very prosperous... Well, that's one of the reasons I wanted to write this book, you see, because he was a slave.
I don't know how much you know about that.
He was a slave.
He was freed when he was seven.
Now, I have to say that my father had blue eyes.
And therefore, he had to have a little white ancestry.
And my point in saying that is that this happens very often.
I don't know that his father, his real father, well, that the man who was his father, oh, I think my father, I think he lives.
how to read later.
But the point is that often these masters are rather helpful to other children.
Well, my point in saying helpful, my grandmother was a cook.
Where was this now?
Richmond, Virginia.
Your father was born in slavery in Virginia as well?
That's right.
And he was freed when he was, when he came, I think, when he was seven.
I've seen that, seven years old.
All right, all right.
And then because, and that's why I'm trying to explain that, because his mother had been a cook, she went to work in a, she went to work in a boarding house.
And then it was my father, no, and my father was my little boy again.
They had two little brothers.
And my father went to the open, you know what the open market is?
It's open market, you see.
and took to buy for her, for her to cook.
And so he got interested in buying and selling.
And when he was, I think he was 10 years old, when he said to his mother, let's go into our own business.
Was he still in Virginia?
How old was he when he came to Boston?
I dare say, maybe 30 years old.
And it's so interesting, my mother and father were born to get married.
to each other, I think, because my mother came north with—I told you, she came north with a teacher.
And in Springfield.
And my point is, my father was in Springfield, Mass, and he had the—they were new, not then—electric powers.
And you see, with seats and so forth and so forth.
And even white people could not go in as after money, because you dress up and so on and so on.
And my point is, it's so interesting.
The reason I'm telling you that, if he saw this little 14-year-old girl, he thought she was white.
He didn't think about it.
But he was aware of him because my father had brought a retired-race horse.
And my mother loved my horses.
And he would stand there.
It's so interesting because he would stand there.
He didn't know.
He didn't know anything.
He thought she was a little white child or something.
And so she used to look and envy this man in this house because she loved to.
She used to say to him, your father would go around the corner like a wild man and so forth.
That's the way she liked to go around the corner of the wild man.
But he didn't know she was unfair.
And he didn't.
That's my point.
They were meant to marry.
Everything they were meant to.
Did your father ever talk about, did he have any recollections of slavery?
Did he have any?
That's a good question.
You know why?
After they were both dead,
I said, I never asked them any questions.
Never asked my father any questions.
I think they probably didn't want us.
I don't know.
Well, no, I don't think.
I think it's because when you're a child, you're so wrapped up in yourself, you see.
Because I have all been over here.
I cannot tell you how many times I've said, my God, I didn't ask my father anything.
What would you have liked to ask him?
About slavery, of course, I knew a little bit about my mother's slavery because of the very situation.
Your mother was also in his... Oh, no, no.
I shouldn't say my mother.
My grandfather, my mother's father.
My mother, my mother's father.
But I will have to say, I was a child who did not need my speech.
I'm not being funny now.
And they never talked about things like that before.
But my mother had a thing.
She'd ignore her.
She makes you sick.
Tell me, so you were an only child?
Did you say your mother came?
Well, she didn't exactly come up with her teacher.
Well, you will see the show.
Everybody, I get a standing ovation when I read that particular story about my mother.
Because I start out, I guess that's my start.
I find it as funny and you laugh and you laugh.
And then I get a little joke.
And then at the very end, I tell the story, this little girl.
for growing up and never seeing her mother again.
And then there's somebody, I get somebody back to the theater, I always get a standing, a standing old man, and I get a standing.
But I make it now, it's the fourth, wait a minute, the short story is six silver dollars.
That's the name of the story.
And my point is, my father, my father's bank, and like this bank, and he gave me six, he gave my father six gold pieces to give me, and a little pocketbook.
with a string on it.
I had never had a pocketbook like that.
And my mother, so I put this, so I took it out when I went out.
And when I came back, my mother said, where are you?
I had dropped it someplace, and so on.
And so that's the way the story began.
And my point is, and you are.
And you laugh, and then at the end of the story.
Well, I always do get quite a little trouble.
And then, of course, I think I stopped.
I'm very smart.
I think I stopped that story.
Maybe not that story.
When they look at me, they say, she's awfully small.
And then I tell them that story about my mother, who used to say, that's no child.
That's a little thought-off woman.
So then I'm letting them know that I know that I'm small, and I'm not.
It doesn't bother me.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah.
So this was your mother who came up, and she said, who never saw her own mother again?
Yeah, because, you know, I wrote the book.
It became a creative writer.
It wasn't my father.
Oh, he did come up.
But my point is, I told you about him coming up, up north, up to Springfield.
And then he came to Boston, and became what's called, I think I wrote that someplace, The Black Banana King.
Right.
That's what's called.
The Black Banana King?
Oh, yeah.
Well, you see, it's so interesting.
Oh, you didn't know that?
I don't know.
No.
Oh, no.
Oh, isn't that interesting?
Yes, because it's... Because there's no produce.
Yeah.
That means nothing to you.
But the banana was a practically new thing.
Only because my mother used to give her friends... We had... My father had brought the whole... What do you call it?
The whole thing about bananas.
Oh, I know what you mean.
The whole tree.
Yeah.
And she would give it to her friends because they were rare.
And that's why he was called the black banana king, because he had other food, too.
Of course, he was in produce business.
That's right.
And the thing that—he was the only man—sometimes I say cynically—he was the only black man in the market.
And my point is I'm very sure that sometimes there were black men looking for work, and they would say, no point am I going down there, because, you know, they wouldn't hire me.
I think that was all white, because my father had a white bookkeeper.
And the reason he had, because no black people—
Nobody blasted her, you know, as they came there, you see.
Let's talk, now you were an only child, as you told us, and yet you were a young woman, almost a girl, really, when you went off to New York, and this was the beginning of what we call the Harlem Renaissance.
How did your family feel about letting their only daughter, their only child, go out by herself to New York City?
I mean, I'm amazed.
Well, you know what?
I thought about that.
You know why she let me go?
Because her mother let her go when she was 14.
I said, that's why she let us go.
Because her mother let her go.
And that story, when you read that about my drawing, because they stood hand in hand.
And my grandmother was saying, may God watch between me and thee while we are after one from another.
So I thought about that.
And then one day, I said, of course.
She let us go, because her mother let us go.
Little 14-year-old girl.
She knew she'd never wanted to.
She was a tomboy, and a half she'd never wanted to, I'm sure.
Were you scared about going to New York?
No!
Do you know, was it Harry Bailey?
The name, Harry Bailey, well, sorry.
He was a musician.
And he was, you would not know the spirituals.
The reason I'm saying that, he was a fair-skinned man, is because I get so tired of people saying, who looks so-and-so because he looks like white.
No, Booker T. Washington was a brown-skinned man.
And I had a friend around the road, over there, whose fair-skinned grandmother taught Booker T. Washington to read.
And my point is, if he had not, when he looked at her fair face, he did not say, I'm going to talk about these people who was so-and-so thing just because he's like, because she was like, she had white blood, and she had been taught my dad how to read, and Booksy Washington did not say, I don't want her, do you understand what I'm saying?
And that's, because that's what so many people say, who does so-and-so thing?
Because I get that from my mother.
There were 12 women in so-and-so.
And I just don't understand.
Because, just as I told you, the president was prejudiced.
And when I say prejudiced, I'm not really prejudiced, but myself.
And I didn't... Do you understand what I'm saying?
Because when I looked at my mother, she's nice.
So when I look at a dark woman, then I don't see my mother.
It has nothing to do with color.
It's just that I don't see my mother.
And as I told you what my mother said, I would hate to live in a world where everybody looked alike.
I would hate to live in a world where everybody looked like me.
But I just felt that she looked, and she was a mother.
And what I mean, that's all she did was take care of the children, all of her sister's children, because they worked, and my father was not poor, so that she didn't have to work.
So when you went to New York,
The Magic City.
We always called it the Magic City.
Did you have a sense that you were going to be taking part in this great cultural and artistic explosion that we called the Harlem Renaissance?
Did you have any idea that you would be a part of it?
Yeah, but it's interesting when you say it's called the Harlem Renaissance, because we didn't know it was the Harlem Renaissance.
Well, I wrote that piece.
You'll see that piece in the collection.
And my point is, it became, they called it the Harlem Renaissance.
Because when Wally died, you will have to read that.
When Wally died, we realized that we were models.
Who died?
Wallace Thurman.
Okay.
Now, he was our lead leader.
You will know nothing about him, but you know nothing about him.
But when you read that, you will see he was very important to us.
Somebody had given this woman, had given him a great big studio.
This woman, I forgot about her name, but it doesn't make any difference.
But the point is, she admired him because he had gone to college, he had brains, he was writing books, and she let him have a lot.
And therefore, we used to assemble there.
The loft, I guess.
The loft, L-O-S-T.
And of course, I was only 18, I guess something, and I never opened my mouth.
But did you know that you were part of something that was really extraordinary?
Well, that's my point.
That's my point.
I mean, you had Langston Hughes, and you had all these extraordinary people, artists.
an amazing occurrence, and I'm wondering if you appreciated it, if you had a sense that this was really a great moment.
I don't know.
They were all very kind of horrible.
I was a virgin, and my point is very interesting to me when I see these young girls carrying them with babies at the age of 15 and so on and so on, because, seriously, they were all so protective of me.
They knew that I was married.
I guess you could tell a person I don't know.
But they knew that, and they were all very careful with me, and very kind.
Yes.
They took care of me.
Yes, because I remember I was no longer there, and it was altogether different.
Well, we're not going to ask you to talk about that.
Well, I mean, people are kind.
I mean, they do, yes.
Well, I'll tell you what happened to Europe.
I was the only one that happened by herself.
I told you that, didn't I?
Oh, I went to Europe.
Oh, God.
Well, I think I told you that I wanted to write plays now.
Oh, did I tell you that?
All right.
I guess without knowing you.
My mother said to me, that's no child, that's a little, that's a little, that's a little child, woman.
I guess I was never a child.
I don't know.
But at any rate, I wrote to the Theater Guild.
Do you know that name?
You wouldn't know.
Oh, you do know.
Yeah.
Yeah, famous Theater Guild.
That's right.
Because James, what James?
at their big committee, and we were all very special up there, and her husband, yeah.
Oh, well, I thought I told you that I wrote them a letter and said that I would like to write a play for them, and I told them I was 19.
And the reason I told them out of 19, I didn't want them to be very small, and I didn't want them to think that I was only 17 years old.
We'll forget this day.
There were children in the play.
I saw this over here.
There were children in the play, and
I was sitting there by myself, kind of a loner.
I was sitting there by myself, and this man, the woman who won the leading roles came in, and she said to this man,
I said, I beg your pardon, I'm not a little girl, I'm 19.
And they burst out laughing, and I thought they didn't believe me.
But to that 19, what did she call me?
Did you write the play?
Did you write that up?
No, they didn't.
No, but I don't remember what I wrote.
But evidently, they enjoyed my letter.
And so they told me to, and they knew that they were going to do the play Porgy.
Did you hear the play Porgy?
Oh, all right.
They knew that they were going to do the play Porgy.
They told you that little story, didn't they?
Oh, maybe you think I have a Boston accent.
It was as thick as you can.
There's no way they describe the action that I'm not about.
But my point is, they told me to come there.
And I went very heavily, because I thought they were going to let me write a play for them.
But no, they didn't.
Oh, you didn't know that?
I didn't tell you that?
No, no.
Oh.
And so therefore, Ruben Amuli, and he was called the boy, I think he was 30 years old, someone saw it.
And so they were selecting people, and I actually had a thick Boston accent, and he talked to me.
He talked to me, and then he, well, so there was a request, and then there were people that they were taking.
So that therefore, I talked to him in my Boston accent.
He said, go to the
Yeah, the rejection.
And somebody rushed up to them and said something to him.
And the reason I'll never forget is because his voice was so full of this stuff.
The little girl in the blue dress, go over there.
Let me ask you a question.
You've lived here now since 1947, I think.
Is it 1947?
I read that.
Oh, I think when the president died.
1943?
Which president?
FDR?
He died in 42.
In any case, you've lived here for at least 50 years.
Oh, yeah.
I've never lived here any place.
No, why?
Why have you lived here so much of your life on the island?
Because, oh my dear, the interesting thing is, I never met you.
Everything happens.
So maybe it happens the way it should be.
The last thing that happened is, a man that I knew and loved and so on, I was going to meet him.
I didn't tell anybody.
No, I was going to meet him.
He had come back from the bar, and I was going to meet him in the station.
That's right.
I was going to meet him.
I didn't tell my family there was anything.
And one of the children decided to have high fever.
I did not know how to leave this house with my mother alone.
And that was that.
So you missed the meeting?
That's right.
You didn't show up.
I didn't show up.
Understandably, he thought I had done this deliberately.
This is somebody you knew before the war?
Yeah.
Somebody from New York or from Boston?
From Boston, some from that area, you see.
And of course, he just came back from the war.
So he had no address, you see.
And of course, he thought that I had decided I...
How did you know what day he was coming in?
Oh, well, no, we knew.
I knew.
We had corresponded.
Only I just didn't say anything, too, because I knew that this was the day, yeah.
But the child was full fever.
My mother would see it, too, but I did not know how to leave, believe it, believe it.
So you didn't get to leave?
Well, that happens all the time.
That happens all the time.
So I dare say I don't know whether I was meant to get married or not.
I don't know.
So how did that bring you down to the island?
No, I was here.
You were here on the island.
Wasn't the child here?
No, I was on the island, with my mother and the child.
So your parents used to come down to the island years ago.
Oh, my.
Oh, well, then you didn't know that.
Don't remember.
I had my first birthday with my father.
Then I had my first birthday that day, that day my birthday, and then the next day
She brought me to the island.
What's your birthday?
June 2nd.
On the second day.
Oh, you know, you know, there are a million dates.
A million dates on my birthday.
And I think the English people, I think there was a type of guy with a glass of hair or something.
So I think, I don't know what that was.
So anyway, you didn't get to Boston to meet the train.
That's right.
I wasn't even going to Boston.
Well, what I mean by this, I was going to meet him in the station because that's the whole point.
He had no place to go.
I mean, he was, do you see what I'm saying?
So he had no address.
And of course, I'm sure that there was this, so I, well, it happened, it happened all the time.
But I think maybe it was meant to be, because I know I wouldn't have written it.
Why did you stay in the island?
Well, I didn't mean to say I had an apartment, and I had a job with my mother, and I had something, and this happened, and that happened.
So my point being, I decided that maybe it was meant to be.
I don't know.
So you just stayed here?
Yeah, well, I had no choice.
Well, when I said I had no choice.
Is this different from the rest of America, in your view, or is it just a very nice, comfortable place for you to live?
Oh, well, no.
Yes, because I came here as a child, as you know.
Right?
He told us that.
Yeah.
And I think that there is something about this island.
Sooner or later, almost so many people I know, the husband is dead or the children are gone, and they come down here and live here year out.
Oh, there's so many, many, many people do that.
And I think that's it.
And as I told you when I was a little girl, reading the gravestones,
Even though I was a child, I was aware that this person was 80 years old or something.
And that was a lot of years.
And then I think it began to come into my mind.
What if you live on the island?
And I will have to say this, I was a child when I came here in the summer.
I didn't think they had any school years.
But you didn't have to go.
And a friend of mine, a grown friend, came down here in a fur coat one summer, one winter.
because she had to want to see a plumber and that was, you know, her man or whatever, something about the house or something.
And she said, Dottie, there's no... She's made with a grown woman in a black coat.
Dottie, there's no leaves on the trees.
And you see, when I came here, I thought there was no space.
But you see, I think that's it.
And then, you see, if you're a child out there, a lot of people don't misunderstand me.
There are plenty of people who come home, and I'm like, God, I can't stand this place.
And it's interesting, if the husband is nice to have to want to stay,
And it's the way.
Oh, can you say that?
Do you understand that?
It doesn't make sense to me, I guess.
All right.
Now, did you know Mr. Barnes, the art collector, was with his first name?
Dr. Alfred.
Dr. Alfred Barnes, the Philadelphia man.
I don't know, because I get so much mail.
Now, this is going back in the hollow way.
Oh, no, no, no.
Do you think that there could be another period of...
I am asked that all the time.
I don't think so.
No.
I don't think so because it's altogether different.
I think it's because we have, but we didn't have it.
We've gone together.
See, I think that has to do.
I told you I got my little thing from the play.
I got something that had a little alarm for my family.
They knew that.
My friends knew that.
And then, in addition to that, I got money from being in the play.
And that my friends borrowed that money.
When I said bound, I'm sure they never played exactly.
So you think that this is what we call the Harlem Renaissance, but you didn't have any name for it then.
But whatever it was, you think that only happens once.
Oh, I think that can't happen.
That kind of thing can't happen.
Well, I think that's the last thing I wrote.
It will never happen again.
We were innocent, you see.
But you were excited, too.
You were so creative.
That's right.
you were really making a statement.
Now, when I think that, when they tell me that you are the last surviving member of this group, how do you want people to remember you?
How do you want you?
I hadn't thought about that.
I told you how shocked I was, didn't I?
Oh, and they gave a thing, I am one of the, what did they go, women?
And how about a ragged, I guess, did something with women.
And women would have been in the Halliburton, one thing or another.
And they gave dinner for them.
Now it is their chance to give me a dinner.
And it was in the Boston papers.
I did not know that.
All right.
But my point is, it wasn't against the Boston papers.
Therefore, when I got there, I did not know anything about that.
I knew the place was packed.
They had put extra tables, extra chairs in one thing or another.
But my point is,
This woman will never know how I felt because I'm a pretty good actress.
She introduced me, and she said, Dorothy West is the last surviving member of the Harlem Renaissance.
I've never thought about it.
I'll never forget that moment as long as I live.
That's why the place is packed, to see the last surviving member of the Harlem Renaissance.
I think you're ready to play on it for you, too.
Sure, sure.
Well, bless your heart.
Bless your heart for saying that.
Well, I will say this about myself.
That's my background, my mother.
I hung in there.
I've always hung in there.
Yeah.
All right.
Now, how about to ask that question once more, how would you like to be remembered?
How would you like to be remembered 50 years from now, 100 years?
Well, tell me a little joke about Bostonians.
The Bostonian is born.
It's in the newspaper.
I'm not talking black people, but particularly that's the Bostonian is born.
And then he gets married, and that's in the newspaper.
Then they have their birth child, that's in the newspaper.
Then they die, that's in the newspaper.
That's it.
I mean, there's no—that's all there is to it, you see.
And so there's a thing of—I think that's why I surprised a lot of this.
Because being a Bostonian then, you just... Now, we're talking about the old Bostonians.
Now, maybe this is something different, but in my day, and I'm not seeing funny, and you... I don't know, what was this writer's book?
Blue Bloods, a wonderful book that he wrote about the Bostonians.
And one, because I'm like that, too, in this respect.
The one day, the cook forgot the... No, not Henry James.
This man is very interested in animals now.
Oh, he's still waiting?
Yeah.
I don't know who it is.
All right, well, all right, he's an old Boston, one of the oldest names.
And this man, he wrote about, he was writing about real people.